=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::StaticInstall - (EXPERIMENTAL, DANGEROUS) Identify a distribution as eligible for static installation

=head1 VERSION

version 0.004

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    ; when you are confident this is correct
    [StaticInstall]
    mode = on

    ; trust us to set the right value (DANGER!)
    [StaticInstall]
    mode = auto

    ; be conservative; just tell us what the value should be
    [StaticInstall]
    mode = auto
    dry_run = 1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a L<Dist::Zilla> plugin that, when C<mode> is C<on>, provides the following distribution metadata:

    x_static_install : "1"

The plugin performs a number of checks against the distribution to determine
the proper value of the C<x_static_install> metadata field. When set to a true
value, this indicates that the can skip a number of installation steps
(such as running F<Makefile.PL> or F<Build.PL> and acting on its side effects).

The definition of a "static installation" is being prototyped by the Perl
Toolchain Gang and is still being refined.  B<DO NOT USE THIS PLUGIN> if you
are not involved in this testing. The proper installation of the built
distribution cannot be guaranteed if installed with a static install-enabled
client.

The current preconditions for C<x_static_install> being true include:

=over 4

=item *

C<dynamic_config> must be false in metadata

=item *

no prerequisites in configure-requires other than L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>, L<Module::Build::Tiny>, or L<File::ShareDir::Install>

=item *

no prerequisites in build-requires

=item *

no installer plugins permitted other than:

=over 4

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker>

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Fallback>

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny>

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny::Fallback>

=back

=item *

an installer plugin from the above list B<must> be used (a manually-generated F<Makefile.PL> or F<Build.PL> is not permitted)

=item *

no other plugins may modify F<Makefile.PL> nor F<Build.PL>

=item *

the L<C<[MetaJSON]>|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MetaJSON> plugin must be used, at (the default) meta-spec version 2

=item *

no F<.xs> files may be present

=item *

F<.pm>, F<.pod>, F<.pl> files may not be present in the root of the distribution or in C<BASEEXT> (where C<BASEEXT> is the last component of the distribution name)

=item *

F<.pmc> and F<.PL> files (excluding F<Makefile.PL>, F<Build.PL>) may not be present

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=head2 C<mode>

=for stopwords usecase

When set to C<on>, the value of C<x_static_install> is set to 1 (the normal usecase).

When set to C<off>, the value of C<x_static_install> is set to 0, which is
equivalent to not providing this field at all.

When set to C<auto>, we attempt to calculate the proper value. When used with
C<dry_run = 1>, the value isn't actually stored, but just provided in a
diagnostic message. This is the recommended usage in a plugin bundle, for
testing against a number of distributions at once.

The calculations are always performed, no matter the value of C<mode> -- if it
comes up with a different result than what you are setting, this is logged. If
C<mode = on> and the calculations discover the distribution is ineligible for
this flag, the build fails, to prevent you from releasing bad metadata.

=head2 C<dry_run>

When true, no value is set in metadata, but verbose logging is enabled so you
can see what the value would have been.

=for Pod::Coverage BUILD metadata setup_installer

=head1 SUPPORT

=for stopwords irc

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-StaticInstall>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-StaticInstall@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-StaticInstall@rt.cpan.org>).
I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<CPAN::Meta::Spec>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
